Welcome to the CMA Project!
=====================================

The Cancer Molecular Analysis (CMA) portal enables researchers to use a single interface to integrate, visualize, and explore clinical and genomic characterization data from translational research studies, such as The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pilot project supported by the NCI and the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), as well as NCI's REMBRANDT (Repository of Molecular Brain Neoplasia Data), which will be added by the end of 2008.

The CMA portal provides web access to tools for the analysis and visualization of gene expression, gene copy number, SNP data, methylation data and DNA sequence. The molecular data can be analyzed within the context of clinical information, including treatment history, pathology status, tumor site and surgical history. The CMA homepage provides a feedback link to encourage user input on functionality and ease of use. 

One of the first data sets available on CMA is the data generated by TCGA on the brain tumor, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). TCGA's large data collection has unprecedented integrative power which is allowing a multi-dimensional, network view of common genetic alterations in the GBM genome. This data can be analyzed using GenePattern, Principal Component Analysis and the Cancer Genome Workbench analysis tools via the CMA. It also can be accessed through TCGA Data Access Matrix via the TCGA Data Portal, which provides advanced tools for selecting subsets of data from TCGA for download based on user-selected settings. Data on lung and ovarian tumors also will be made available as they are generated by the TCGA pilot.

The CMA is an Open Source project and it is written in Grails, Java and Groovy.

The CMA is distributed under the BSD 3-Clause License.
Please see the NOTICE and LICENSE files for details.

You will find more details about the CMA in the following links:
* [Code Repository] (https://github.com/NCIP/cma) 
* [Binary Files] (http://gforge.nci.nih.gov/frs/?group_id=488)
 

Please join us in further developing and improving CMA.
